# Testing Baselines

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Where baselines are stored](#where-baselines-are-stored)
- [Updating baselines](#updating-baselines)

## Overview

In some rendering tests, we use baseline files to validate rendering. The baseline files are the expected output rendering 
of the test, as represented by XML, and are checked into the repo.

The test then renders an output file (named with a .out.xml file extension), which is validated against the baseline 
file. If they don't match up, the test will fail.

An example baseline XML file is stored in the repo test resources directory. It is somewhat human-readable, although requiring some practice.

## Where baselines are stored

Both the baseline and the output files are stored under `userprofile\Pictures\XamlTaefOutput`. However, the baseline file 
is also checked in at [test/resources/masters](../../dxaml/test/resources/masters). The output file generated by 
the test does not get checked in. 

Below is an example of the output and baseline file for a Foundation_Graphics_ChromeFocusRectangle test, side by side in 
XamlTaefOutput. The baseline file is titled `<testname>.baseline.xml`, while the output is titled `<testname>.out.xml`.

## Updating baselines

When making a change to a test or product that affects the rendering we want to validate, we will also need to update 
the corresponding baseline to ensure that the test still passes. 

To update the baseline, replace the previously checked in baseline file in `dxaml\test\resources\masters` with the newly 
generated .out file. Rename the output file to `<testname>.baseline.xml`, as described above in the section on
[where baselines are stored](#where-baselines-are-stored). Check in the newly copied baseline file.

However, if a change triggers baseline updates in a large number of tests, it can be very tedious to update all the 
baselines manually. In this case, `scripts\UpdateMasterFiles.cmd` automates this process.

When running this script, UpdateMasterFiles.cmd will prompt the user for the new baselines directory. This will be where 
the output files are stored: `userprofile\Pictures\XamlTaefOutput`. The new baselines directory can also be input as a 
command line parameter. 

The script will then copy over all updated output files from `userprofile\Pictures\XamlTaefOutput` to the baselines 
directory in the repo, and rename them to baselines as well.