build/Localization/readme.md, before:

# Localization process

This doc is now located in the OneNote (I'm not deleting as I go because it's more... remote)

This directory contains everything necessary to process our english-only .resw files and receive back from the localization
service the localized files.

The localization process is asynchronous so what happens is:
1. Run devcmd.cmd
2. For now we will run the RunLocWorkflow script manually. In the future we will have a daily scheduled run to submit our strings for localization. 
3. The script also retrieves from the localization service the localized (or partially localized) .resw files. These files
are staged in the source tree but when run on the CI machine, they're then abandoned.
4. We will manually email egutierr;wdglocengsup and request them to process our localization request (this will eventually
happen automatically but for now we need to manually request).
    ```
    For this reach project http://tdbuild:40/Home/ConfigSettings?TeamID=104

    Please let us know when it's complete.
    ```
Once all the strings are localized on the service then someone needs to run the loc workflow locally and submit the 
strings to master. 

Run the workflow locally with a string that uniquely identifies the version of the strings. Today's date usually works well:
```
RunLocWorkflow.cmd 20161202-manual
```

## If you're doing this for a new control
Add a new section to [..\build\Localization\Settings\LocConfig.xml](..\build\Localization\Settings\LocConfig.xml) for your control.

```
    <File
      location="MyWidgetControl"
      path="%LocRoot%\..\..\dev\MyWidgetControl\Strings\en-us\Resources.resw"/>
```

Make sure that your Resources.resw file is located in Strings\en-us because the localization process will create sibling directories for all other languages.

Commit message:

Update localization process to use ADO Task instead of TDClient (#4689)
* initial changes to move to Touchdown ADO task

* update pipeline vars

* update

* updated config file path

* path updates

* added publish build artifact task

* more changes to move localization to ADO task

* updated localization readme

* added copyback to yaml

* Readme update

* Added comment

* addressed script comments

* addressed comments

* script update

* md file update

* fix sln file

build/Localization/readme.md, after:

# Localization process

This directory contains everything necessary to process our english-only .resw files and receive back from the localization
service the localized files.

Uploading english-only .resw files to Touchdown for localization:
1. MUX-LocalizationHandoff is a scheduled pipeline that runs regularly. It will automatically upload the lastest english .resw files to Touchdown for localization.

Checking-in the localized .resw files requires some manual steps. The plan is to automate this in the future.
1. When there are newly available localized strings, Touchdown notifies the team via email.
2. Each run of MUX-LocalizationHandoff retrieves the latest localized files and publishes them as a build artifact under 'LocalizationDrop'
3. Download & unzip this artifact (either from a pipeline run that happened after the reciept of the aforementioned email or from a manually scheduled pipeline run).
4. Run the script `build\Localization\CopyBackLocalizedFiles.ps1`. Either place the downloaded folder under `\BuildOutput\` or specify its location using /`-LocalizedFilesLocation`.
5. Check-in the changes to master

## If you're doing this for a new control
Make sure that your Resources.resw file is located in *ControlName*\Strings\en-us because the localization process will create sibling directories for all other languages.
