.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_proposal.md, before:

---
name: Feature Proposal
about: Suggest a new feature or idea
title: 'Proposal:'
labels: feature proposal
assignees: ''

---

<!-- This is a template for new feature or API proposals.
For example you can use this to propose a new API on an existing type, or an idea for a new UI control.
It's fine if you don't have all the details: you can start with the Summary and Rationale.

This link describes the WinUI feature/API proposal process:
https://github.com/Microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/docs/feature_proposal_process.md
-->

# Proposal: [your title here] 
<!-- Add a title for your feature or API proposal. Please be short and descriptive -->

## Summary
<!-- Include 1-2 sentences summarizing your feature or API proposal -->

## Rationale
<!-- Create a list that describes WHY the feature should be added to WinUI for all developers and users.
Proposals often have multiple motives for why we should do the work, so list each one as a separate bullet.
If applicable you can also describe how the proposal aligns to the current WinUI roadmap and priorities in a separate paragraph:
https://github.com/Microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/docs/roadmap.md
-->
* {First reason for why we should consider this proposal}
* {Second reason for why we should consider this proposal}
* {etc}


<!----------------------
The below sections are optional when submitting an idea or proposal.
All sections are required before we'll accept a PR to master, but aren't necessary to start the discussion.
------------------------>

## Scope
<!-- Please include a list of what the feature should and shouldn't do by filling in the table below.
'Must' implies that the feature should not ship without this capability.  
'Should' is something we should push hard for, but is not absolutely required to ship.
'Could' is a nice-to-have; a good stretch goal that isn't painful if we don't achieve it.
'Won't' is a clear statement that the proposal/feature will intentionally not have that capability.
This list will evolve and grow as the proposal becomes more refined over time.
A good rule of thumb is to start your proposal with no more than 7 high-level requirements.
-->
| Capability | Priority |
| :---------- | :------- |
| This proposal will allow developers to accomplish W | Must |
| This proposal will allow end users to accomplish X | Should |
| This proposal will allow developers to accomplish Y | Could |
| This proposal will allow end users to accomplish Z | Won't |

## Important Notes
<!-- Please include any other important details.
This could include one or more of:
- usage examples
- an API proposal (any supported language or pseudocode is fine)
- design mockups or example screenshots
- other implementation notes
-->

## Open Questions
<!-- Please list any open issues that you think still need to be addressed.
These could include areas you think would benefit from community or WinUI team input -->

Commit message:

Update issue templates to link to the Project Reunion repository (#2665)
* Update issue templates

* Update wording

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_proposal.md, after:

---
name: Feature Proposal
about: Suggest a new feature or idea
title: 'Proposal:'
labels: feature proposal
assignees: ''

---

<!-- This is a template for new feature or API proposals.
For example you can use this to propose a new API on an existing type, or an idea for a new UI control.
For feature proposals related to UWP or the app models, please open an issue on the Project Reunion repository: https://github.com/microsoft/ProjectReunion

It's fine if you don't have all the details: you can start with the Summary and Rationale.

This link describes the WinUI feature/API proposal process:
https://github.com/Microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/docs/feature_proposal_process.md
-->

# Proposal: [your title here] 
<!-- Add a title for your feature or API proposal. Please be short and descriptive -->

## Summary
<!-- Include 1-2 sentences summarizing your feature or API proposal -->

## Rationale
<!-- Create a list that describes WHY the feature should be added to WinUI for all developers and users.
Proposals often have multiple motives for why we should do the work, so list each one as a separate bullet.
If applicable you can also describe how the proposal aligns to the current WinUI roadmap and priorities in a separate paragraph:
https://github.com/Microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/docs/roadmap.md
-->
* {First reason for why we should consider this proposal}
* {Second reason for why we should consider this proposal}
* {etc}


<!----------------------
The below sections are optional when submitting an idea or proposal.
All sections are required before we'll accept a PR to master, but aren't necessary to start the discussion.
------------------------>

## Scope
<!-- Please include a list of what the feature should and shouldn't do by filling in the table below.
'Must' implies that the feature should not ship without this capability.  
'Should' is something we should push hard for, but is not absolutely required to ship.
'Could' is a nice-to-have; a good stretch goal that isn't painful if we don't achieve it.
'Won't' is a clear statement that the proposal/feature will intentionally not have that capability.
This list will evolve and grow as the proposal becomes more refined over time.
A good rule of thumb is to start your proposal with no more than 7 high-level requirements.
-->
| Capability | Priority |
| :---------- | :------- |
| This proposal will allow developers to accomplish W | Must |
| This proposal will allow end users to accomplish X | Should |
| This proposal will allow developers to accomplish Y | Could |
| This proposal will allow end users to accomplish Z | Won't |

## Important Notes
<!-- Please include any other important details.
This could include one or more of:
- usage examples
- an API proposal (any supported language or pseudocode is fine)
- design mockups or example screenshots
- other implementation notes
-->

## Open Questions
<!-- Please list any open issues that you think still need to be addressed.
These could include areas you think would benefit from community or WinUI team input -->
