# Codegen

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Why use a code generator?](#why-use-a-code-generator)
  - [What does the code-generator generate?](#what-does-the-code-generator-generate)
  - [How does it work?](#how-does-it-work)
  - [How can I debug code-gen?](#how-can-i-debug-code-gen)
  - [How do I edit the T4 templates?](#how-do-i-edit-the-t4-templates)
- [Running](#running)
- [Codegen attributes](#codegen-attributes)
  - [Class Attributes](#class-attributes)
  - [Member Attributes](#member-attributes)

## Overview

All the controls in WinUI require a large amount of code for getters and setters for the properties, along with other
boilerplate code. Maintaining all of that by hand is really time consuming.

Codegen is an effective tool to solve this problem by defining a common template. The APIs are defined in C#, and then
code gets generated for all the controls. Codegen generated files have extensions `.g.h` and `.g.cpp`. No changes
should be made directly in these files, as codegen will overwrite them the next time it runs. WinUI2 has its own,
different codegen mechanism (controls in the `controls` directory).


## Why use a code generator?

At a minimum, we have to author C++ code and IDL code. That means when you add any public API, you have to update at
least 2 things. Updating the IDL alone is non-trivial. There are several complex rules involving versioning, virtual
methods, composition, etc. that every XAML developer would need to understand.

The same goes for the runtime classes. There's a lot of boilerplate code that's just there to implement the IDL
interfaces, and that's mundane code to write. Add to that the fact that we actually want some metadata for all of this
so that our parser can do its thing, and pretty quickly you're writing code in 3-4 places to add a single DP to a
class. We decided to use a code-generator to do all of that for us.

### What does the code-generator generate?

It generates the following:

* IDLs
  * dxaml/phone/idl
  * dxaml/xcp/components/maps/idl
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/idl
* Metadata:
  * dxaml/xcp/components/metadata
  * dxaml/xcp/core/metadata
* XBF indexes
  * dxaml/xcp/core/parser
  * dxaml/xcp/tools/XCPTypesAutoGen/XamlGen/StableXbf*.csv
* Core partials (cpp/h)
  * dxaml/xcp/core/controls/generated
  * dxaml/xcp/core/elements
* Framework partials (cpp/h)
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/lib/winrtfactories
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/lib/winrtgeneratedclasses
* Manifests (Core, Phone, maps)
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/dllsrv/exts/maps
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/dllsrv/exts/phone
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/manifest

`XCPTypesAutoGen.exe` aka The Old Code Generator no longer exists. It used to build these projects that are now built by
the new code generator, `XamlGen.exe`:

* Extension type infos (Phone, Maps)
  * dxaml/xcp/components/maps/lib
  * dxaml/phone/lib
* Extension XamlTypeInfo.g.h/rc/cpp
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/dllsrv/exts/maps
  * dxaml/xcp/dxaml/dllsrv/exts/phone

Improvements in new `XamlGen.exe`

* Extension types are generated by `XamlGen.exe`. Because of that:
* All components of the generator are layered nicely:
  * `XamlGen` only needs `XamlGen.OM.dll`.
  * Model dlls need `XamlOM` and `XamlGen.OM`.
  * We can now build Model dlls without the need to build `XamlGen`.
  * We can build `XamlGen` and `XamlGen.OM` without any dependencies on model dlls.
  * `XamlGen.exe` and `XamlGen.OM` won’t change (unless we need to make code-generator
  changes), so they can be checked into tools.
  * Model dlls can build without any dependency (and without building `tt` files).
  This means that we can build them dynamically.

### How does it work?

**Code-gen location:** [dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen/](../../dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen)
**VS solution:** [dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen/xcptypesautogen.sln](../../dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen/xcptypesautogen.sln)

Code-gen is now a build task, located at [dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen/RunCodeGen/](../../dxaml/xcp/tools/XCPTypesAutoGen/RunCodeGen)
When you execute [`runcodegen.cmd`](../../dxaml/xcp/runcodegen.cmd), it simply builds this directory.

RunCodeGen (the build task) does the following:

* Builds `XamlGen.exe`, `XamlGen.OM.dll` and the CS model dlls
* Runs `XamlGen.exe` with the model dlls built
* Compares the generated output with the checked in generated files, and emits an error if updates are needed
* At the same time, the error indicates a script that contains only the necessary updates to bring the checked in files
  up to date (no rebuild necessary)

When `XamlGen.exe` executes

* It constructs an object model that is optimized for doing code-generation for XAML. This object model is defined in
 ` dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen/OM/...`
  1. It reflects on the model authored by XAML devs. The model is defined in the XamlOM project at
     `dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen/XamlOM/Model/...`
  2. It executes the attributes in the model. The attributes are "builders" and can mutate the model. See
     `dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen/XamlOM/Builders/...`
  for examples of such attributes.
  3. It does some general massaging of the model to make it more useful.
* Model validation: it makes sure that there aren't any GUID collisions.
* Run through the model and calculate offsets/indexes, optimize types/properties away from the metadata table if
  possible, generate type handles for our fast type-checking mechanism, etc.
* Get a hash of the model, so that after we're done we can verify that nobody mutated the model in a template.
  Templates modifying the model is a huge source of bugs.
* Run the code generators. Execute the T4 templates and have them walk through the model and output to the right files.
* Get another hash of the model and verify it's the same hash as we got before.

What does the code generator consist of?

1. `OM`. Definitions of the model, such as TypeDefinition, etc
2. `XamlGen`. Contains the actual code generators.
3. `XamlOM` describes the actual model. This is where everybody adds properties/classes when they want to add new APIs.
   This project is used by both the old and new code generator.
4. Model Dlls is where the model for our extensions (Phone, Maps, Autocomplete, etc) lives.

### How can I debug code-gen?

The easiest way is to open the `XcpTypesAutoGen.sln` solution file in VS, and just hit F5. If you were used to the old
solution, you will now notice a cleaner structure (now that SilverlightXASD and XamlTypesAutoGen-Old is gone).

It's all C# that executes. If you run code-gen through VS, it will output the files in `dxaml/xcp/tools/xcptypesautogen`,
right next to the solution file, so they will not get copied into the product. You need to use runcodegen.cmd if you
want to get the files placed into the product.

These are the steps to debug `XamlGen`.

1. Open `XCPTypesAutoGen.sln` project from `dxaml/xcp/tools/XCPTypesAutoGen/XCPTypesAutoGen.sln`
2. Set project "**XamlGen**" as the default startup project
3. Open the project properties then select the "**Debug**" tab
4. Build the entire solution to have the dlls generated in the current dir
5. Now you can debug with F5.
6. If you have a problem, please break point `static int Main(String[] args)` in
   [`XCPTypesAutoGen/XamlGen/program.cs`](../../dxaml/xcp/tools/XCPTypesAutoGen/XamlGen/Program.cs).
7. The IDL output file will be in `XCPTypesAutoGen/temp/Core`

### How do I edit the T4 templates?

We use T4 to do the actual code generation. T4 ships with Visual Studio. You should use VS to edit `.tt` files, because
VS will transform on-the-fly your `.tt` to a C# version of it. That C# code is ultimately what executes to generate the
code.

F5 if you want to debug it, or run `runcodegen.cmd` to execute it within our enlistment.

By default, VS doesn't do syntax highlighting for T4 templates. I highly recommend you go to Extensions and Updates in
Visual Studio, and look for a T4 editor such as Tangible T4 or Devart T4. They will make reading/editing a T4 file much
more intuitive.

## Running

It needs to be manually executed to generate the code files, otherwise build system reports that the files are not
updated. The script file is `runcodegen.cmd` which exists at `dxaml/xcp` folder. Whenever the changes are made in
template C# files, the script has to be run to generate the code files. The codegen tool is smart enough to only
generate code files if it detects new changes.

## Codegen attributes

In the C# API definitions (used as input to codegen) you can set attributes that configure what codegen produces

### Class Attributes

***[Platform(<number>, <version>)]***

See Platform/Versions for more info

***[DependencyPropertyModifier(Modifier.Private)]***

Prevents a property from having a DependencyProperty companion. For example, this is used on Border.Child, so that it
doesn't generate a Border.ChildProperty.

***[Guids(…)] and [InterfaceDetails(…)]***

In RS5+ these shouldn't be required.

Every Com type requires unique ID , which is represented by GUIDs. This is required for Query Interface's, amongst
other things. The Guids and InterfaceDetails attributes help specify these for the type being CodeGen'd. You should
always use InterfaceDetails, Guids is only for legacy types. The only exceptions are static classes and event args
classes, which don’t yet have codegen support for interface forwarding (it doesn't matter much on these types, so
nobody has bothered to add support).

There is a convenient GUID creator in Visual Studio under Tools -> Create GUID.

***[DXamlIdlGroup("…")]***

Used to specify that this class should go in a different IDL than the default for the current file. For example, the
Controls IDL is huge already, so new classes should go into the Controls2 IDL.  Similarly, an IDL group of Main
indicates that a type needs to go into the windows.ui.xaml.coretypes.idl. We prefer that  IControl interfaces go into
coretypes. The DXamlIdlGroup attribute is generally only used when adding an enum for use in Controls or
ControlTemplates.

***[Implements(typeof(…))]***

Specifies the interface that this class implements.

***[NativeName("…")]***

This does magic and should be a candidate for removal. It's only real purpose is to magically mark a native class as
being handwritten. By default, you'll get the correct native typename. Specifies that a type is a built-in struct. The
parameter is the name of the native struct corresponding to this type.

***[DXamlName("…")]***

See DXamlName and DXamlOverloadName

***[FrameworkTypePattern]***

Specifies that the type is a framework-only type, and should not be included in the core type table.

***[CodeGen]***

See CodeGen

***[TypeTable]***

See Type Table

***[EnumFlags]***

See EnumFlags

### Member Attributes

***[FieldBacked]***

Denotes that a Dependency Property is backed by a field. This is the same as using OffsetFieldNameAttribute, except we
automatically generate a name for the field based on the dependency property name.

Note that you should very rarely use this - in general we prefer properties to be stored in "sparse storage" which is
the default if they're not field-backed.  The only properties that should be field-backed are those that will be set on
the majority of the instances of a type or those which we need to access in hot paths in the core of XAML.

Example: Windows.UI.Xaml.Controls.Primitives.ScrollBar.Orientation

***[ForceInclude]***

Forces a type into the type table, even if it appears unnecessary because nothing references it. The type table is the
internal metadata table that we use rather than calling out to the app's IXamlMetadataProvider.

***[HideFromNewCodeGen]***

Keeps the type out of all the g.cpp and g.h files (DirectUI class, core class, type tables, indices, activators). In
general, one should not use this when adding a new type / member.

***[CollectionType(…)]***

See CollectionType

***[OffsetFieldName(…)]***

The name of the variable at the core-level that corresponds to this member. Codegen will do the legwork of copying over
the member's value to the specified offset.

***[PropertyKind(<PropertyKind>)]***

Specifies the kind of property to represent. This can be one of three values:

1. PropertyKind.Both  : Both a property and a dependency property
2. PropertyKind.DependencyPropertyOnly
3. PropertyKind.PropertyOnly

Note: Any property that you want the parser to be able to set (i.e., to be used
in a markup .xaml file) needs to be backed by a DependencyProperty. Using
PropertyKind.PropertyOnly will result in an error when trying to set that
property in markup. If you don't want a DependencyProperty, you can add
`[DependencyPropertyModifier(Modifier.Private)]` to avoid actually adding a
DependencyProperty while still enabling the property being used in markup.

***[EventFlags]***

 See XAML Event Flags

***[PropertyFlags]***

 See XAML Property Flags

***[DXamlOverloadName("…")]***

 See DXamlName and DXamlOverloadName

***[DelegateToCore]***

Generate code in the framework that delegates the call to the core.

***[NativeStorageType(<ValueType>)]***

This is used to generate struct KnownProperty.m_type in XcpTypes.g.h. This helps us query for the member's type. See
ValueType for possible parameters.

***[RenderDirtyFlagClassName(…)]***

This specifies the name of the class in which the Render changed callback for the member is implemented.

***[RenderDirtyFlagMethodName(…)]***

This specifies the name of the Render changed callback for the member.

***[StorageGroupNames(…)]***

StorageGroupNames takes three strings. The first is the name of the storage ensure method, the second and third detail
the Storage Offset.

***[EventHandlerType(<EventHandlerKind>)]***

Specifies the kind of event-handler to generate in IDL. The EventHandlerKind can be:

1. Concrete : XEventHandler
2. TypedSenderAndArgs : TypedEventHandler<T, U>
3. TypedArgs : EventHandler<T>

New code should prefer TypedSenderAndArgs whenever possible, as this conforms to the WinRT API design guidelines that
we used strongly-typed event handler senders and arguments.

***[CodeGen(<CodeGenLevel>)]***

This can be specified on both types and members. The CodeGenLevel specifies how much should be generated:

* `CodeGenLevel.IdlAndStub`  : Default value. Applies to types and members. Generate IDL and a stub class/member.
* `CodeGenLevel.CoreOnly` : Applies to types and members. Generate code in the core layer only.
* `LookupOnly` : Applies to types only. Allow for lookup in the framework layer.
* `CodeGenLevel.Stub` : Applies to types only. Generate stub class only.
* `CodeGenLevel.Idl` : Applies to types and members. Generate IDL and type-table entries.
* `CodeGenLevel.IdlAndNoTypeTableEntries` : Applies to types and members. Generate IDL only.
* `CodeGenLevel.IdlAndPartialStub` : Applies to members only. Generate IDL and a stub with parameter validation.
* `CodeGenLevel.Excluded` : Applies to constructors only. Don't generate anything.

***[CodeGen(partial:true)]***

This generates the PARTIAL_CLASS macro that allow for a 'partial class' to be written in the DXAML layer. This allows
us to add class-specific code at the DXAML level (eg Control_Partial.h/cpp).
