docs/developer_guide.md, before:

# Developer Guide

This guide provides instructions on how to build the repo and implement 
improvements.

* [Prerequisites](developer_guide.md#Prerequisites)
* [Building the repository](developer_guide.md#Building-the-repository)
* [Testing](developer_guide.md#Testing)
* [Telemetry](developer_guide.md#Telemetry)

Additional reading:

* [Source code structure](source_code_structure.md)
* [Coding style and conventions](code_style_and_conventions.md)


## Prerequisites
#### Visual Studio

Install latest VS2019 (16.1 or later) from here: http://visualstudio.com/downloads

Include the following workloads:
* .NET desktop development
* Desktop Development with C++
* Universal Windows Platform development

#### SDK

While WinUI is designed to work against many versions of Windows, you will need 
a fairly recent SDK in order to build WinUI. It's required that you install the 
17763 and 18362 SDKs. You can download these via Visual Studio (check 
all the boxes when prompted), or you can manually download them from here: 
https://developer.microsoft.com/en-US/windows/downloads/windows-10-sdk


## Building the repository

Building the solution **MUXControls.sln** will build all projects. 
Generally you will want to set your configuration to **Debug**, **x64**, and 
select **MUXControlsTestApp** as your startup project in Visual Studio. To retrieve the appropriate dependencies, right click on the solution in the Solution Explorer and select "Restore NuGet Packages". 

If you want to work on a single control/project, instead of using the **MUXControls.sln**, you can open the **MUXControlsInnerLoop.sln**.

#### Working with the MUXControlsInnerLoop solution
To work on a specific feature or control using the **MUXControlInnerLoop.sln** you will need to modify the **InnerLoopAreas.props** file to include the desired controls and projects. For example, to work in the ItemsRepeater using the InnerLoop, you will need to add
```xml
<FeatureRepeaterEnabled>true</FeatureRepeaterEnabled>
```
to the **InnerLoopAreas.props** file.

A full list of all areas can be found in the **FeatureArea.props** files. To include a component in the `Microsoft.UI.Xaml.dll` but not add it to the MUXControlsTestApp, you add it with `productOnly` instead of `true`: 
```xml
<FeatureRepeaterEnabled>productOnly</FeatureRepeaterEnabled>
```

When switching between the **MUXControls.sln** and **MUXControlsInnerLoop.sln**, make sure you either delete the **BuildOutput** folder in the solution's root directory or run `git clean -dfx` in order to delete some build files which are incorrectly determined to be up to date by MSBuild after the switch.
Note that `git clean -dfx` deletes all untracked files, so it may also delete any changes you made. To see what would be deleted by that command without actually deleting anything, run `git clean -dfxn`.


If you use the inner loop solution, please avoid pushing changes to the inner loop solution or **InnerLoopAreas.props** files.
This can be avoided by running the following commands in git:
```
git update-index --skip-worktree InnerLoopAreas.props
git update-index --skip-worktree MUXControlsInnerLoop.sln
```

### Creating a NuGet package

To create a NuGet package for a given build flavor (release/debug) and build arch (x64/x86/ARM/ARM64), first you need to build the solution in that configuration.

After building the solution in the desired configuration, you can run the `build-nupkg.ps1` script that will run the required steps.
The script takes the following arguments:
#### -BuildOutput
The path to the microsoft-ui-xaml BuildOutput folder
#### -BuildFlavor
The flavor to use for nuget build (`debug` or `release`). Defaults to `release`.
#### -BuildArch
The build arch to use for the `.winmd` and `generic.xaml` file, one of: `x64`, `x86`, `ARM`, `ARM64`. Defaults to `x86`.
#### -OutputDir
The folder where the nuget package will be generated in
#### -SkipFrameworkPackage
Can be specified to skip building a framework package. Defaults to `False`.
In order to generate framework packages, you need to generate package appx files. 
This can be done using the `MakeAllAppx.cmd` located in the same folder as `build-nupkg.ps1`.


Example usage (running from root of repository folder):
```
// Builds a NuGet package with debug binaries and arch x64 into the folder "NuGetPackage"
.\build\NuSpecs\build-nupkg.ps1 -BuildOutput "..\..\BuildOutput" -BuildFlavor "debug" -BuildArch "x64" -OutputDir "..\..\NugetPackage"
```

> Note: To use debug build outputs as nuget package, you need to change [this line](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/7d2cd793a0154580f1dd0c9685c461198e05f207/dev/dll/Microsoft.UI.Xaml.vcxproj#L35) in `microsoft-ui-xaml/dev/dll/Microsoft.UI.Xaml.vcxproj` from
> ```xml
> <DisableEmbeddedXbf Condition="'$(Configuration)'=='Release'">false</DisableEmbeddedXbf> 
> ``` 
> to 
> ```xml
> <DisableEmbeddedXbf>false</DisableEmbeddedXbf> 
> ```
> to allow building of .pri files in debug mode, which are needed for the NuGet package.


## Testing

### Validating UI and accessibility requirements

> More information will be coming on this soon

### Manual testing

#### Test app

The WinUI solution project has a test app that is useful for validating common 
scenarios affected by the presence of the WinUI package.  Set 
**MUXControlsTestApp** as your startup project in Visual Studio and you can F5 
to start debugging that app and validate your changes.

##### Organization

MUXControlsTestApp is a no frills test app built for on demand developer 
scenarios and also to be automation friendly. As such it's perhaps not as 
friendly to navigate as something similarly control-centric like the 
[Xaml Controls Gallery](https://github.com/Microsoft/Xaml-Controls-Gallery/). 
That's a great potential area for future improvement, although 
MUXControlsTestApp must continue to function as an automation test target. 

#### Standalone app targeting custom NuGet package

In the end developers will consume WinUI as a NuGet package in their own apps. 
So it's important to keep in mind that scenario when validating changes.

To enable **automated** NuGet package testing there is a separate solution at 
test\MUXControlsReleaseTest\MUXControlsReleaseTest.sln, which contains
MUXControls.ReleaseTest, NugetPackageTestApp (C#) and NugetPackageTestAppCX 
(C++).

Test classes for this are in MUXControls.ReleaseTest, and they share test 
infrastructure with MUX so you can write tests in the same way as in MUX. 
The only difference is you'll have to specify the TestType in ClassInitialize 
and TestCleanup (TestType.Nuget for NugetPackageTestApp and TestType.NugetCX 
for NugetPackageTestAppCX). 
```
public static void ClassInitialize(TestContext testContext)
{
    TestEnvironment.Initialize(testContext, TestType.Nuget);
}

public void TestCleanup()
{
    TestEnvironment.AssemblyCleanup(TestType.Nuget);
}
```
The test apps are using released versions of MUX NuGet package locally. In [CI](https://dev.azure.com/ms/microsoft-ui-xaml/_build?definitionId=20), 
the test pipeline will generate a NuGet package for each build, and there's a 
separate pipeline configured to consume the generated package from latest 
build and run MUXControl.ReleaseTest.

#### Downlevel testing

One of the core values of WinUI is the way that it brings controls to a wide 
variety of versions of Windows, handling version compatibility differences so 
that developers using WinUI don't have to. As such, testing WinUI changes on 
different versions is sometimes necessary. To accomplish this you will need to 
at times set up older versions of Windows for testing. To get these earlier 
versions you can make use of a Visual Studio subscription [as described here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/windows/client-images).

### Automated testing

You can run the test suite from within Visual Studio by using the Test top 
level menu. For targeting indivual tests you can use [Test Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/test/run-unit-tests-with-test-explorer?view=vs-2019) 
(found under the Test->Windows sub menu).

This same suite of tests will be run as part of your Pull Request validation 
[check](contribution_workflow.md#Checks).

#### Creating a new test

For your test to be discovered it needs to be a method tagged as [\[TestMethod\]](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.visualstudio.testtools.unittesting.testmethodattribute?view=mstest-net-1.2.0) 
on a class tagged with as [\[TestClass\]](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.visualstudio.testtools.unittesting.testclassattribute?view=mstest-net-1.2.0). 
With that metadata in place your new test method will be picked up by Test 
Explorer.

There are two types of tests you can use to validate your scenarios:
* **API Tests**: Run in the context of an app and validate the behaviors of our 
APIs. 
* **Interaction Tests**: Drive the UI on an external app and validate the 
results using UI Automation.

Keep in mind that your test will be executed on many different versions of 
Windows, not just the most recent version. Your tests may need version or 
[IsApiPresent](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.foundation.metadata.apiinformation.istypepresent) 
checks in order to pass on all versions.

#### Visual tree verification tests

##### Update visual tree verification files
Visual tree dumps are stored [here](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/tree/master/test/MUXControlsTestApp/verification) and we use them as the baseline for visual tree verifications. If you make UI changes, visual tree verification tests may fail since the new dump no longer matches with previous verification files. The verification files need to be updated to include your latest changes. Visual verification test automatically captures the new visual tree and uploads the dump to test pipeline artifacts. Here are the steps to replace existing verification files with the new ones.

1. Find your test run.

    ![test fail page1](images/test_fail_page1.png)

    ![test fail page2](images/test_fail_page2.png)

2. Download new verification files.

    ![drop folder](images/test_pipeline_drop.png)
    
    ![VisualTreeMasters folder](images/masters_folder.png)

3. Diff & replace

    Diff the [old](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/tree/master/test/MUXControlsTestApp/verification) and new verification files, make sure the changes are intended, replace the files and commit your changes.

##### Create new visual tree tests
1. Write new test

    Write a new test using [VisualTreeTestHelper](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/test/MUXControlsTestApp/VisualTreeTestHelper.cs). Quick example [here](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/dev/AutoSuggestBox/APITests/AutoSuggestBoxTests.cs#L69-L74).

2. Run the test locally

    Run the test locally and make sure everything looks right. The test will fail, which is expected since the test is new and there's no verification file to compare against. A new verification file should be generated in your Pictures folder (The test app doesn't have write access to other arbitrary folders ☹).

3. Queue a test run in pipeline

    Local test run only gives you the visual tree dump for your host OS version. Some controls have different visual behaviors on different versions. To get verification files for all supported OS versions, you'll need to start a test run in test pipeline.

    Go to the [build page](https://dev.azure.com/ms/microsoft-ui-xaml/_build?definitionId=21) and select `WinUI-Public-MUX-PR` pipeline. Click the `Queue` button on top right corner, update `Branch/tag` TextBlock to be your working branch then click on `Run`.

    Outside contributors may not have permission to do this, just open a PR and one of our team members will queue a test run for you.

4. Get the new verification files.

    The new verification files will be uploaded to pipeline artifacts folder when test finishes. Continue the steps in `Update visual tree verification files` section above to download and commit the new files.



## Telemetry

This project collects usage data and sends it to Microsoft to help improve our 
products and services. Note however that no data collection is performed 
when using your private builds.

Commit message:

Update doc for visual tree masters update (#2660)
* Upload new images for dev doc

* Developer Guide: Update visual tree master update section

* Remove old images

* Revert "Remove old images"

This reverts commit 330f47cd45faf26ae4e67b1ebe8bd330a6099f4d.

* Fix typo

* Add download info for Microsoft employees

* More 'master' terms replaced.

* Add new images.

* image rename

* include new images

* Remove old images.

* update download steps

* rename images

docs/developer_guide.md, after:

# Developer Guide

This guide provides instructions on how to build the repo and implement 
improvements.

* [Prerequisites](developer_guide.md#Prerequisites)
* [Building the repository](developer_guide.md#Building-the-repository)
* [Testing](developer_guide.md#Testing)
* [Telemetry](developer_guide.md#Telemetry)

Additional reading:

* [Source code structure](source_code_structure.md)
* [Coding style and conventions](code_style_and_conventions.md)


## Prerequisites
#### Visual Studio

Install latest VS2019 (16.1 or later) from here: http://visualstudio.com/downloads

Include the following workloads:
* .NET desktop development
* Desktop Development with C++
* Universal Windows Platform development

#### SDK

While WinUI is designed to work against many versions of Windows, you will need 
a fairly recent SDK in order to build WinUI. It's required that you install the 
17763 and 18362 SDKs. You can download these via Visual Studio (check 
all the boxes when prompted), or you can manually download them from here: 
https://developer.microsoft.com/en-US/windows/downloads/windows-10-sdk


## Building the repository

Building the solution **MUXControls.sln** will build all projects. 
Generally you will want to set your configuration to **Debug**, **x64**, and 
select **MUXControlsTestApp** as your startup project in Visual Studio. To retrieve the appropriate dependencies, right click on the solution in the Solution Explorer and select "Restore NuGet Packages". 

If you want to work on a single control/project, instead of using the **MUXControls.sln**, you can open the **MUXControlsInnerLoop.sln**.

#### Working with the MUXControlsInnerLoop solution
To work on a specific feature or control using the **MUXControlInnerLoop.sln** you will need to modify the **InnerLoopAreas.props** file to include the desired controls and projects. For example, to work in the ItemsRepeater using the InnerLoop, you will need to add
```xml
<FeatureRepeaterEnabled>true</FeatureRepeaterEnabled>
```
to the **InnerLoopAreas.props** file.

A full list of all areas can be found in the **FeatureArea.props** files. To include a component in the `Microsoft.UI.Xaml.dll` but not add it to the MUXControlsTestApp, you add it with `productOnly` instead of `true`: 
```xml
<FeatureRepeaterEnabled>productOnly</FeatureRepeaterEnabled>
```

When switching between the **MUXControls.sln** and **MUXControlsInnerLoop.sln**, make sure you either delete the **BuildOutput** folder in the solution's root directory or run `git clean -dfx` in order to delete some build files which are incorrectly determined to be up to date by MSBuild after the switch.
Note that `git clean -dfx` deletes all untracked files, so it may also delete any changes you made. To see what would be deleted by that command without actually deleting anything, run `git clean -dfxn`.


If you use the inner loop solution, please avoid pushing changes to the inner loop solution or **InnerLoopAreas.props** files.
This can be avoided by running the following commands in git:
```
git update-index --skip-worktree InnerLoopAreas.props
git update-index --skip-worktree MUXControlsInnerLoop.sln
```

### Creating a NuGet package

To create a NuGet package for a given build flavor (release/debug) and build arch (x64/x86/ARM/ARM64), first you need to build the solution in that configuration.

After building the solution in the desired configuration, you can run the `build-nupkg.ps1` script that will run the required steps.
The script takes the following arguments:
#### -BuildOutput
The path to the microsoft-ui-xaml BuildOutput folder
#### -BuildFlavor
The flavor to use for nuget build (`debug` or `release`). Defaults to `release`.
#### -BuildArch
The build arch to use for the `.winmd` and `generic.xaml` file, one of: `x64`, `x86`, `ARM`, `ARM64`. Defaults to `x86`.
#### -OutputDir
The folder where the nuget package will be generated in
#### -SkipFrameworkPackage
Can be specified to skip building a framework package. Defaults to `False`.
In order to generate framework packages, you need to generate package appx files. 
This can be done using the `MakeAllAppx.cmd` located in the same folder as `build-nupkg.ps1`.


Example usage (running from root of repository folder):
```
// Builds a NuGet package with debug binaries and arch x64 into the folder "NuGetPackage"
.\build\NuSpecs\build-nupkg.ps1 -BuildOutput "..\..\BuildOutput" -BuildFlavor "debug" -BuildArch "x64" -OutputDir "..\..\NugetPackage"
```

> Note: To use debug build outputs as nuget package, you need to change [this line](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/7d2cd793a0154580f1dd0c9685c461198e05f207/dev/dll/Microsoft.UI.Xaml.vcxproj#L35) in `microsoft-ui-xaml/dev/dll/Microsoft.UI.Xaml.vcxproj` from
> ```xml
> <DisableEmbeddedXbf Condition="'$(Configuration)'=='Release'">false</DisableEmbeddedXbf> 
> ``` 
> to 
> ```xml
> <DisableEmbeddedXbf>false</DisableEmbeddedXbf> 
> ```
> to allow building of .pri files in debug mode, which are needed for the NuGet package.


## Testing

### Validating UI and accessibility requirements

> More information will be coming on this soon

### Manual testing

#### Test app

The WinUI solution project has a test app that is useful for validating common 
scenarios affected by the presence of the WinUI package.  Set 
**MUXControlsTestApp** as your startup project in Visual Studio and you can F5 
to start debugging that app and validate your changes.

##### Organization

MUXControlsTestApp is a no frills test app built for on demand developer 
scenarios and also to be automation friendly. As such it's perhaps not as 
friendly to navigate as something similarly control-centric like the 
[Xaml Controls Gallery](https://github.com/Microsoft/Xaml-Controls-Gallery/). 
That's a great potential area for future improvement, although 
MUXControlsTestApp must continue to function as an automation test target. 

#### Standalone app targeting custom NuGet package

In the end developers will consume WinUI as a NuGet package in their own apps. 
So it's important to keep in mind that scenario when validating changes.

To enable **automated** NuGet package testing there is a separate solution at 
test\MUXControlsReleaseTest\MUXControlsReleaseTest.sln, which contains
MUXControls.ReleaseTest, NugetPackageTestApp (C#) and NugetPackageTestAppCX 
(C++).

Test classes for this are in MUXControls.ReleaseTest, and they share test 
infrastructure with MUX so you can write tests in the same way as in MUX. 
The only difference is you'll have to specify the TestType in ClassInitialize 
and TestCleanup (TestType.Nuget for NugetPackageTestApp and TestType.NugetCX 
for NugetPackageTestAppCX). 
```
public static void ClassInitialize(TestContext testContext)
{
    TestEnvironment.Initialize(testContext, TestType.Nuget);
}

public void TestCleanup()
{
    TestEnvironment.AssemblyCleanup(TestType.Nuget);
}
```
The test apps are using released versions of MUX NuGet package locally. In [CI](https://dev.azure.com/ms/microsoft-ui-xaml/_build?definitionId=20), 
the test pipeline will generate a NuGet package for each build, and there's a 
separate pipeline configured to consume the generated package from latest 
build and run MUXControl.ReleaseTest.

#### Downlevel testing

One of the core values of WinUI is the way that it brings controls to a wide 
variety of versions of Windows, handling version compatibility differences so 
that developers using WinUI don't have to. As such, testing WinUI changes on 
different versions is sometimes necessary. To accomplish this you will need to 
at times set up older versions of Windows for testing. To get these earlier 
versions you can make use of a Visual Studio subscription [as described here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/windows/client-images).

### Automated testing

You can run the test suite from within Visual Studio by using the Test top 
level menu. For targeting indivual tests you can use [Test Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/test/run-unit-tests-with-test-explorer?view=vs-2019) 
(found under the Test->Windows sub menu).

This same suite of tests will be run as part of your Pull Request validation 
[check](contribution_workflow.md#Checks).

#### Creating a new test

For your test to be discovered it needs to be a method tagged as [\[TestMethod\]](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.visualstudio.testtools.unittesting.testmethodattribute?view=mstest-net-1.2.0) 
on a class tagged with as [\[TestClass\]](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.visualstudio.testtools.unittesting.testclassattribute?view=mstest-net-1.2.0). 
With that metadata in place your new test method will be picked up by Test 
Explorer.

There are two types of tests you can use to validate your scenarios:
* **API Tests**: Run in the context of an app and validate the behaviors of our 
APIs. 
* **Interaction Tests**: Drive the UI on an external app and validate the 
results using UI Automation.

Keep in mind that your test will be executed on many different versions of 
Windows, not just the most recent version. Your tests may need version or 
[IsApiPresent](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.foundation.metadata.apiinformation.istypepresent) 
checks in order to pass on all versions.

#### Visual tree verification tests

##### Update visual tree verification files
Visual tree dumps are stored [here](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/tree/master/test/MUXControlsTestApp/verification) and we use them as the baseline for visual tree verifications. If you make UI changes, visual tree verification tests may fail since the new dump no longer matches with previous verification files. The verification files need to be updated to include your latest changes. Visual verification test automatically captures the new visual tree and uploads the dump to test pipeline artifacts. Here are the steps to replace existing verification files with the new ones.

1. Find your test run.

    ![test fail page1](images/test_fail_page1.png)

    ![test fail page2](images/test_fail_page2.png)

2. Download new verification files.

    First, open the published build artifacts:
    
    ![released artifacts](images/test_fail_page3.png)
    
    ###### [For Microsoft employees]
    
    If you are a Microsoft employee, you can directly view the content of the created `drop` folder containing the updated verification files in Azure Pipelines.
    
    ###### [For external contributors]
    
    If you are an external contributor, you cannot directly download the new verification files but instead have to download the entire generated **drop** archive and unpack it (its size can be around 1 GB):

    ![drop folder](images/test_pipeline_drop.png) 
    
    The next steps are the same for both Microsoft employees and external contributors:
    
    Open the `LinksToHelixTestFiles.html` file in the opened drop folder.
    
    ![drop folder employee](images/test_pipeline_drop2.png)
    
    You will now see download links to the new verification files:
    
    ![verification files employee](images/test_pipeline_verificationfiles_links.png)
    
    Finally, click on the links and download the files (like `ComboBox-4.xml`).

3. Diff & replace

    Diff the [old](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/tree/master/test/MUXControlsTestApp/verification) and new verification files, make sure the changes are intended, replace the files and commit your changes.

##### Create new visual tree tests
1. Write new test

    Write a new test using [VisualTreeTestHelper](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/test/MUXControlsTestApp/VisualTreeTestHelper.cs). Quick example [here](https://github.com/microsoft/microsoft-ui-xaml/blob/master/dev/AutoSuggestBox/APITests/AutoSuggestBoxTests.cs#L69-L74).

2. Run the test locally

    Run the test locally and make sure everything looks right. The test will fail, which is expected since the test is new and there's no verification file to compare against. A new verification file should be generated in your Pictures folder (The test app doesn't have write access to other arbitrary folders ☹).

3. Queue a test run in pipeline

    Local test run only gives you the visual tree dump for your host OS version. Some controls have different visual behaviors on different versions. To get verification files for all supported OS versions, you'll need to start a test run in test pipeline.

    Go to the [build page](https://dev.azure.com/ms/microsoft-ui-xaml/_build?definitionId=21) and select `WinUI-Public-MUX-PR` pipeline. Click the `Queue` button on top right corner, update `Branch/tag` TextBlock to be your working branch then click on `Run`.

    Outside contributors may not have permission to do this, just open a PR and one of our team members will queue a test run for you.

4. Get the new verification files.

    The new verification files will be uploaded to pipeline artifacts folder when test finishes. Continue the steps in `Update visual tree verification files` section above to download and commit the new files.



## Telemetry

This project collects usage data and sends it to Microsoft to help improve our 
products and services. Note however that no data collection is performed 
when using your private builds.
